Hello and welcome to this course from Pluralsight.
My name is Andrew Mallett
and I'm gonna be your instructor as I guide you
through this complete course where we go through
and take a look at CompTIA Linux+ System Management.
Now, in this module, we're gonna be taking a look
and concentrating on managing Linux files.
Now, as we go through and take a look,
the whole course is gonna help you get up and running
with Linux System administration, as well as DevOps Skills.
We're gonna be working with different Linux distributions
so you are not just learning one Linux system.
We'll be working with Alma Linux 8.5
which is a Red Hat 8 rebuild.
We'll be looking at openSUSE 15.2 as well as Ubuntu 20.04.
Within this particular module,
we're gonna be taking a look at managing directories,
understanding file metadata, editing files,
and copying files both locally and remotely.
Along with that, we'll be taking a quick look
at creating SSH Git repos,
but we'll see far more on Git later on,
as we look at scripting in another course.
Now, one of the important things
about CompTIA certification
is getting the idea of your learning Linux,
rather than particularly learning
one particular distribution.
The recommended systems to work on are,
as we are working on in our lab,
Alma Linux, Ubuntu, and openSUSE.
Now for the demonstrations,
we are working with Vagrant and VirtualBox.
Now, if you can install VirtualBox
and Vagrant on your system, both are free
and available across pretty much all platforms,
you're gonna be able to make use of our Vagrant file
that could easily then build your virtual machines for you.
To get into the main heart of this module though,
we're gonna be taking a look at working at our command line.
Now, of course
there are some very simple things that we can do.
So of course, printing our working directory,
moving to a directory using the cd command.
But once we've done that,
we actually populate a variable called OLDPWD,
so we can check the content of that,
and that will be pointing through to our home directory,
if that's where we started.
Now that means then we can actually cd to that variable
or as a shortcut, cd space minus.
Now of course, looking at this,
this just introduces a couple of commands.
The pwd, the cd command, the echo command,
and the use of a variable or a shortcut.
Your real skill is by getting good hands-on experience
through the demonstrations at the command line.
So come on, let's go through
and find ourselves a command line environment to work with.